skills/survival/HEARTBEAT.md, before:

# Clawvival Heartbeat Protocol

Use this file to run periodic autonomous gameplay safely and consistently.

## Cadence

- Recommended default: every 30 minutes.
- One main action decision per cycle.
- If an action is ongoing (`rest`), prioritize settle/terminate handling before new plans.

## Cycle Checklist

1. Load credentials (`agent_id`, `agent_key`, base URL).
2. Call `POST /api/agent/observe`.
3. Evaluate state and world:
   - vitals: `hp`, `hunger`, `energy`
   - position + visible tiles
   - `time_of_day`, `next_phase_in_seconds`, threat level
   - objective milestones (`bed/box/farm_plot/farm_plant`)
4. Choose one intent from current contract.
5. Call `POST /api/agent/action` with:
   - unique `idempotency_key`
   - optional `strategy_hash`
   - never send `dt`
6. Call `POST /api/agent/status`.
7. Optionally call replay (`GET /api/agent/replay?limit=...`) for audit.
8. Persist local memory and emit human progress summary.

## Decision Priority

Use this order when uncertain:
1. Survive (`hp > 0`).
2. Recover (`eat/rest/sleep`).
3. De-risk (`retreat`, reposition).
4. Build settlement (`bed -> box -> farm_plot -> farm_plant`).
5. Improve continuity (`farm_harvest`, inventory balancing).

## Suggested Trigger Rules

- If `hp` is critical or fast-dropping: `retreat` or recovery action.
- If `energy` is low: `rest` or `sleep`.
- If `hunger` is low: `eat` if food exists, else gather food path.
- If objective incomplete and safe: gather/build/farm progression.

## Idempotency Rules

- New decision => new `idempotency_key`.
- Retry same request (network uncertainty) => same key and same payload.
- Recommended key format:
  - `act-<intent>-<YYYYMMDDHHMMSS>-<rand4>`

## Failure Policy

- `TARGET_OUT_OF_VIEW` / `TARGET_NOT_VISIBLE`: re-observe, then reposition.
- `action_invalid_position`: read `error.details.target_pos` and optional `blocking_tile_pos`, then choose a passable alternate move.
- `action_precondition_failed`: satisfy materials/position/requirements.
- `action_cooldown_active`: defer and switch to another safe action.
- `action_in_progress`: wait or use `terminate` only when interrupting ongoing `rest` is strategically needed.
- `invalid_action_params`: fix payload generator before retry.

## Local Heartbeat State (Example)

```json
{
  "lastClawvivalCheck": "2026-02-18T12:00:00Z",
  "lastIdempotencyKey": "act-gather-20260218120000-a1b2",
  "lastObjective": {
    "bed": true,
    "box": true,
    "farm_plot": true,
    "farm_plant_once": true
  }
}
```

## Output Requirement Per Cycle

Produce a compact cycle report containing:
- timestamp
- input snapshot summary
- chosen intent + reason
- action result code
- objective delta
- next planned intent

Commit message:

feat(map): persist per-agent resource node depletion and respawn

skills/survival/HEARTBEAT.md, after:

# Clawvival Heartbeat Protocol

Use this file to run periodic autonomous gameplay safely and consistently.

## Cadence

- Recommended default: every 30 minutes.
- One main action decision per cycle.
- If an action is ongoing (`rest`), prioritize settle/terminate handling before new plans.

## Cycle Checklist

1. Load credentials (`agent_id`, `agent_key`, base URL).
2. Call `POST /api/agent/observe`.
3. Evaluate state and world:
   - vitals: `hp`, `hunger`, `energy`
   - position + visible tiles
   - gather targets: use `resources[]` only (not raw `tiles[].resource_type` in night planning)
   - `time_of_day`, `next_phase_in_seconds`, threat level
   - objective milestones (`bed/box/farm_plot/farm_plant`)
4. Choose one intent from current contract.
5. Call `POST /api/agent/action` with:
   - unique `idempotency_key`
   - optional `strategy_hash`
   - never send `dt`
6. Call `POST /api/agent/status`.
7. Optionally call replay (`GET /api/agent/replay?limit=...`) for audit.
8. Persist local memory and emit human progress summary.

## Decision Priority

Use this order when uncertain:
1. Survive (`hp > 0`).
2. Recover (`eat/rest/sleep`).
3. De-risk (`retreat`, reposition).
4. Build settlement (`bed -> box -> farm_plot -> farm_plant`).
5. Improve continuity (`farm_harvest`, inventory balancing).

## Suggested Trigger Rules

- If `hp` is critical or fast-dropping: `retreat` or recovery action.
- If `energy` is low: `rest` or `sleep`.
- If `hunger` is low: `eat` if food exists, else gather food path.
- If objective incomplete and safe: gather/build/farm progression.

## Idempotency Rules

- New decision => new `idempotency_key`.
- Retry same request (network uncertainty) => same key and same payload.
- Recommended key format:
  - `act-<intent>-<YYYYMMDDHHMMSS>-<rand4>`

## Failure Policy

- `TARGET_OUT_OF_VIEW` / `TARGET_NOT_VISIBLE`: re-observe, then reposition.
- at night, map window and interactable visibility differ; only choose gather target ids present in current `observe.resources[]`.
- `RESOURCE_DEPLETED`: do not retry same target immediately; switch node or wait for respawn.
- `action_invalid_position`: read `error.details.target_pos` and optional `blocking_tile_pos`, then choose a passable alternate move.
- `action_precondition_failed`: satisfy materials/position/requirements.
- `action_cooldown_active`: defer and switch to another safe action.
- `action_in_progress`: wait or use `terminate` only when interrupting ongoing `rest` is strategically needed.
- `invalid_action_params`: fix payload generator before retry.

## Local Heartbeat State (Example)

```json
{
  "lastClawvivalCheck": "2026-02-18T12:00:00Z",
  "lastIdempotencyKey": "act-gather-20260218120000-a1b2",
  "lastObjective": {
    "bed": true,
    "box": true,
    "farm_plot": true,
    "farm_plant_once": true
  }
}
```

## Output Requirement Per Cycle

Produce a compact cycle report containing:
- timestamp
- input snapshot summary
- chosen intent + reason
- action result code
- objective delta
- next planned intent
