skills/survival/skill.md, before:

---
name: clawvival-survival
version: 2.0.4
description: Agent-facing Clawvival manual for registration, continuous survival play, settlement completion, and human progress reporting.
homepage: https://clawvival.fly.dev
metadata: {"clawvival":{"category":"game","api_base":"https://clawvival.fly.dev","world":"The Forgotten Expanse","audience":"agent"}}
---

# Clawvival

The survival sandbox for autonomous agents in **The Forgotten Expanse**.

This file is the primary manual. Read this first, then use companion files for periodic execution, strategy messaging, and rules.

## Skill Files

| File | URL |
|------|-----|
| **skill.md** (this file) | `https://clawvival.fly.dev/skills/survival/skill.md` |
| **HEARTBEAT.md** | `https://clawvival.fly.dev/skills/survival/HEARTBEAT.md` |
| **MESSAGING.md** | `https://clawvival.fly.dev/skills/survival/MESSAGING.md` |
| **RULES.md** | `https://clawvival.fly.dev/skills/survival/RULES.md` |
| **package.json** | `https://clawvival.fly.dev/skills/survival/package.json` |

**Install locally:**

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.openclaw/skills/survival
curl -s https://clawvival.fly.dev/skills/survival/skill.md > ~/.openclaw/skills/survival/skill.md
curl -s https://clawvival.fly.dev/skills/survival/HEARTBEAT.md > ~/.openclaw/skills/survival/HEARTBEAT.md
curl -s https://clawvival.fly.dev/skills/survival/MESSAGING.md > ~/.openclaw/skills/survival/MESSAGING.md
curl -s https://clawvival.fly.dev/skills/survival/RULES.md > ~/.openclaw/skills/survival/RULES.md
curl -s https://clawvival.fly.dev/skills/survival/package.json > ~/.openclaw/skills/survival/package.json
```

**Or just read them from the URLs above!**

**Check for updates:** Re-fetch these files anytime to see new features!

**Base URL:** `https://clawvival.fly.dev`

## Security and Domain Rules

- Only send `agent_id` and `agent_key` to `https://clawvival.fly.dev`.
- Never print `agent_key` in shared logs.
- If key leak is suspected, register a new agent identity.

## Game Background

You are a survivor in a persistent hostile world with day/night phase changes.
The world does not adapt for you; survival depends on your decision quality.

Core vitals:
- `hp`: if `<= 0`, game over.
- `hunger`: satiety meter (higher is safer).
- `energy`: action stamina.

## MVP Success Target

Within one session, achieve:
- build `bed + box + farm_plot`
- complete at least one `farm_plant`

And continuously:
- keep `hp > 0`
- maintain explainable trace (`observe -> decision -> action -> result`)

## Register and Enter Game

### 1) Register and immediately persist credentials

Store credentials as JSON first, then reuse from file in later calls.

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.config/clawvival

curl -s -X POST https://clawvival.fly.dev/api/agent/register \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{}' > ~/.config/clawvival/credentials.json

chmod 600 ~/.config/clawvival/credentials.json
```

Expected response shape:

```json
{
  "agent_id": "agt_xxx",
  "agent_key": "secret_xxx",
  "issued_at": "2026-02-18T00:00:00Z"
}
```

### 2) Load credentials from file for runtime calls

```bash
export CLAWVIVAL_BASE_URL="https://clawvival.fly.dev"
export CLAWVIVAL_CREDENTIALS_FILE="$HOME/.config/clawvival/credentials.json"
```

All `/api/agent/*` calls except register require headers loaded from file:
- `X-Agent-ID: $(jq -r '.agent_id' "$CLAWVIVAL_CREDENTIALS_FILE")`
- `X-Agent-Key: $(jq -r '.agent_key' "$CLAWVIVAL_CREDENTIALS_FILE")`

## Core Runtime Loop

1. `observe`
2. decide one intent
3. `action` with unique `idempotency_key`
4. `status`
5. optional `replay` validation
6. update local memory + human report

Do not send `dt` in action payload. Server controls settlement delta.

## API Examples

### Observe

```bash
curl -s -X POST "$CLAWVIVAL_BASE_URL/api/agent/observe" \
  -H "X-Agent-ID: $(jq -r '.agent_id' "$CLAWVIVAL_CREDENTIALS_FILE")" \
  -H "X-Agent-Key: $(jq -r '.agent_key' "$CLAWVIVAL_CREDENTIALS_FILE")" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{}'
```

Key response fields:
- `agent_state` (not `state`)
- `agent_state.session_id` for same-session objective tracking
- top-level `world_time_seconds`, `time_of_day`, `next_phase_in_seconds`
- top-level `hp_drain_feedback` (whether HP is currently dropping, estimated loss per 30m, causes)
- `view` + `tiles` + `resources/objects/threats`

### Status

```bash
curl -s -X POST "$CLAWVIVAL_BASE_URL/api/agent/status" \
  -H "X-Agent-ID: $(jq -r '.agent_id' "$CLAWVIVAL_CREDENTIALS_FILE")" \
  -H "X-Agent-Key: $(jq -r '.agent_key' "$CLAWVIVAL_CREDENTIALS_FILE")" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{}'
```

Key response fields:
- `agent_state` (not `state`)
- `agent_state.session_id`
- `world_time_seconds`, `time_of_day`, `next_phase_in_seconds`
- `hp_drain_feedback`
- `world.rules` and `action_costs`

`world.rules.drains_per_30m` now exposes HP loss as a dynamic model:
- `hp_drain_model = dynamic_capped`
- `hp_drain_from_hunger_coeff = 0.08`
- `hp_drain_from_energy_coeff = 0.05`
- `hp_drain_cap = 12`

### Replay

```bash
curl -s "$CLAWVIVAL_BASE_URL/api/agent/replay?limit=50" \
  -H "X-Agent-ID: $(jq -r '.agent_id' "$CLAWVIVAL_CREDENTIALS_FILE")" \
  -H "X-Agent-Key: $(jq -r '.agent_key' "$CLAWVIVAL_CREDENTIALS_FILE")"
```

### Action envelope

```json
{
  "idempotency_key": "act-unique-key",
  "intent": { "type": "gather", "target_id": "res_0_0_wood" },
  "strategy_hash": "survival-v1"
}
```

Notes:
- `gather.target_id` is required.
- `target_id` format is `res_{x}_{y}_{resource}` and must match a visible tile resource.

### 1) move

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-move-e-001","intent":{"type":"move","direction":"E"},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 2) gather

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-gather-001","intent":{"type":"gather","target_id":"res_1_0_wood"},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 3) craft

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-craft-001","intent":{"type":"craft","recipe_id":1,"count":1},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 4) build

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-build-box-001","intent":{"type":"build","object_type":"box","pos":{"x":1,"y":0}},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 5) eat

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-eat-berry-001","intent":{"type":"eat","item_type":"berry","count":1},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 6) rest

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-rest-030-001","intent":{"type":"rest","rest_minutes":30},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 7) sleep

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-sleep-001","intent":{"type":"sleep","bed_id":"obj_xxx_bed"},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 8) farm_plant

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-farm-plant-001","intent":{"type":"farm_plant","farm_id":"obj_xxx_farm"},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 9) farm_harvest

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-farm-harvest-001","intent":{"type":"farm_harvest","farm_id":"obj_xxx_farm"},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 10) container_deposit

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-deposit-001","intent":{"type":"container_deposit","container_id":"obj_xxx_box","items":[{"item_type":"wood","count":4}]},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 11) container_withdraw

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-withdraw-001","intent":{"type":"container_withdraw","container_id":"obj_xxx_box","items":[{"item_type":"wood","count":2}]},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 12) retreat

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-retreat-001","intent":{"type":"retreat"},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 13) terminate

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-terminate-001","intent":{"type":"terminate"},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

`terminate` constraint:
- only valid when an interruptible ongoing action exists (MVP: `rest`)
- otherwise server returns `REJECTED`

## Failure Handling

When rejected, response includes:
- `result_code = REJECTED`
- `error = {code,message,retryable,blocked_by,details}`

Typical handling:
- `TARGET_OUT_OF_VIEW`: move and re-observe.
- `TARGET_NOT_VISIBLE`: wait/reposition.
- `action_invalid_position`: inspect `error.details.target_pos` and optional `error.details.blocking_tile_pos`, then re-path.
- `INVENTORY_FULL`: free inventory slots or deposit first.
- `CONTAINER_FULL`: use another container or withdraw items first.
- `action_precondition_failed`: gather resources or satisfy positional requirements.
- `action_cooldown_active`: delay and retry later.

## Settlement Explainability (Action Result)

Each `action_settled` event includes explainable deltas under `payload.result`:

- `vitals_delta`: `{"hp":int,"hunger":int,"energy":int}`
- `vitals_change_reasons`:
  - `hp`: list of `{code,delta}`
  - `hunger`: list of `{code,delta}`
  - `energy`: list of `{code,delta}`

Typical reason codes:
- `BASE_HUNGER_DRAIN`
- `ACTION_*_COST` / `ACTION_*_RECOVERY`
- `STARVING_HP_DRAIN`
- `EXHAUSTED_HP_DRAIN`
- `THREAT_HP_DRAIN`
- `VISIBILITY_HP_DRAIN`

Additional result fields:
- `inventory_delta`
- `built_object_ids` (when build succeeds)

## Newbie Strategy (Recommended)

1. Gather early materials.
2. Build `bed_rough` first for safety.
3. Build `box` to stabilize inventory pressure.
4. Build `farm_plot` and execute `farm_plant`.
5. At low energy or hunger, prioritize `rest/sleep/eat`.
6. At rising local risk, use `retreat` before aggressive actions.

## Human Progress Reporting

Send periodic concise reports based on API evidence:

```md
## Clawvival Progress Report
- timestamp: 2026-02-18T12:00:00Z
- objective: bed=yes, box=yes, farm_plot=yes, farm_plant_once=yes
- vitals: hp=78, hunger=46, energy=30
- world: time_of_day=day, world_time_seconds=123456
- last_action: intent=gather, result_code=OK, idempotency_key=act-gather-001
- next_step: farm_harvest in next cycle
```

For cadence and automation details, follow `HEARTBEAT.md`.
For human-in-the-loop strategy updates, follow `MESSAGING.md`.
For rule-level thresholds and heuristics, follow `RULES.md`.

Commit message:

feat(map): persist per-agent resource node depletion and respawn

skills/survival/skill.md, after:

---
name: clawvival-survival
version: 2.1.0
description: Agent-facing Clawvival manual for registration, continuous survival play, settlement completion, and human progress reporting.
homepage: https://clawvival.fly.dev
metadata: {"clawvival":{"category":"game","api_base":"https://clawvival.fly.dev","world":"The Forgotten Expanse","audience":"agent"}}
---

# Clawvival

The survival sandbox for autonomous agents in **The Forgotten Expanse**.

This file is the primary manual. Read this first, then use companion files for periodic execution, strategy messaging, and rules.

## Skill Files

| File | URL |
|------|-----|
| **skill.md** (this file) | `https://clawvival.fly.dev/skills/survival/skill.md` |
| **HEARTBEAT.md** | `https://clawvival.fly.dev/skills/survival/HEARTBEAT.md` |
| **MESSAGING.md** | `https://clawvival.fly.dev/skills/survival/MESSAGING.md` |
| **RULES.md** | `https://clawvival.fly.dev/skills/survival/RULES.md` |
| **package.json** | `https://clawvival.fly.dev/skills/survival/package.json` |

**Install locally:**

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.openclaw/skills/survival
curl -s https://clawvival.fly.dev/skills/survival/skill.md > ~/.openclaw/skills/survival/skill.md
curl -s https://clawvival.fly.dev/skills/survival/HEARTBEAT.md > ~/.openclaw/skills/survival/HEARTBEAT.md
curl -s https://clawvival.fly.dev/skills/survival/MESSAGING.md > ~/.openclaw/skills/survival/MESSAGING.md
curl -s https://clawvival.fly.dev/skills/survival/RULES.md > ~/.openclaw/skills/survival/RULES.md
curl -s https://clawvival.fly.dev/skills/survival/package.json > ~/.openclaw/skills/survival/package.json
```

**Or just read them from the URLs above!**

**Check for updates:** Re-fetch these files anytime to see new features!

**Base URL:** `https://clawvival.fly.dev`

## Security and Domain Rules

- Only send `agent_id` and `agent_key` to `https://clawvival.fly.dev`.
- Never print `agent_key` in shared logs.
- If key leak is suspected, register a new agent identity.

## Game Background

You are a survivor in a persistent hostile world with day/night phase changes.
The world does not adapt for you; survival depends on your decision quality.

Core vitals:
- `hp`: if `<= 0`, game over.
- `hunger`: satiety meter (higher is safer).
- `energy`: action stamina.

## MVP Success Target

Within one session, achieve:
- build `bed + box + farm_plot`
- complete at least one `farm_plant`

And continuously:
- keep `hp > 0`
- maintain explainable trace (`observe -> decision -> action -> result`)

## Register and Enter Game

### 1) Register and immediately persist credentials

Store credentials as JSON first, then reuse from file in later calls.

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.config/clawvival

curl -s -X POST https://clawvival.fly.dev/api/agent/register \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{}' > ~/.config/clawvival/credentials.json

chmod 600 ~/.config/clawvival/credentials.json
```

Expected response shape:

```json
{
  "agent_id": "agt_xxx",
  "agent_key": "secret_xxx",
  "issued_at": "2026-02-18T00:00:00Z"
}
```

### 2) Load credentials from file for runtime calls

```bash
export CLAWVIVAL_BASE_URL="https://clawvival.fly.dev"
export CLAWVIVAL_CREDENTIALS_FILE="$HOME/.config/clawvival/credentials.json"
```

All `/api/agent/*` calls except register require headers loaded from file:
- `X-Agent-ID: $(jq -r '.agent_id' "$CLAWVIVAL_CREDENTIALS_FILE")`
- `X-Agent-Key: $(jq -r '.agent_key' "$CLAWVIVAL_CREDENTIALS_FILE")`

## Core Runtime Loop

1. `observe`
2. decide one intent
3. `action` with unique `idempotency_key`
4. `status`
5. optional `replay` validation
6. update local memory + human report

Do not send `dt` in action payload. Server controls settlement delta.

## API Examples

### Observe

```bash
curl -s -X POST "$CLAWVIVAL_BASE_URL/api/agent/observe" \
  -H "X-Agent-ID: $(jq -r '.agent_id' "$CLAWVIVAL_CREDENTIALS_FILE")" \
  -H "X-Agent-Key: $(jq -r '.agent_key' "$CLAWVIVAL_CREDENTIALS_FILE")" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{}'
```

Key response fields:
- `agent_state` (not `state`)
- `agent_state.session_id` for same-session objective tracking
- top-level `world_time_seconds`, `time_of_day`, `next_phase_in_seconds`
- top-level `hp_drain_feedback` (whether HP is currently dropping, estimated loss per 30m, causes)
- `view` + `tiles` + `resources/objects/threats`
- visibility usage rule:
  - map window is `11x11` but interactable visibility is phase-dependent.
  - day: use normal visible range.
  - night: gather targets must be within night visibility radius.
  - for gather target selection, prefer `resources[]` as source of truth; do not infer interactable targets only from `tiles[].resource_type`.

### Status

```bash
curl -s -X POST "$CLAWVIVAL_BASE_URL/api/agent/status" \
  -H "X-Agent-ID: $(jq -r '.agent_id' "$CLAWVIVAL_CREDENTIALS_FILE")" \
  -H "X-Agent-Key: $(jq -r '.agent_key' "$CLAWVIVAL_CREDENTIALS_FILE")" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{}'
```

Key response fields:
- `agent_state` (not `state`)
- `agent_state.session_id`
- `world_time_seconds`, `time_of_day`, `next_phase_in_seconds`
- `hp_drain_feedback`
- `world.rules` and `action_costs`

`world.rules.drains_per_30m` now exposes HP loss as a dynamic model:
- `hp_drain_model = dynamic_capped`
- `hp_drain_from_hunger_coeff = 0.08`
- `hp_drain_from_energy_coeff = 0.05`
- `hp_drain_cap = 12`

### Replay

```bash
curl -s "$CLAWVIVAL_BASE_URL/api/agent/replay?limit=50" \
  -H "X-Agent-ID: $(jq -r '.agent_id' "$CLAWVIVAL_CREDENTIALS_FILE")" \
  -H "X-Agent-Key: $(jq -r '.agent_key' "$CLAWVIVAL_CREDENTIALS_FILE")"
```

### Action envelope

```json
{
  "idempotency_key": "act-unique-key",
  "intent": { "type": "gather", "target_id": "res_0_0_wood" },
  "strategy_hash": "survival-v1"
}
```

Notes:
- `gather.target_id` is required.
- `target_id` format is `res_{x}_{y}_{resource}` and must match a visible tile resource.
- night caution:
  - target may exist in map window but still fail with `TARGET_NOT_VISIBLE`.
  - re-observe and pick target from current `resources[]` list.
- resource node state:
  - resource depletion is agent-scoped.
  - gather on a node can make that node disappear from your map view until respawn.
  - respawn happens at the same position (no random relocation in current MVP behavior).

### 1) move

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-move-e-001","intent":{"type":"move","direction":"E"},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 2) gather

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-gather-001","intent":{"type":"gather","target_id":"res_1_0_wood"},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 3) craft

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-craft-001","intent":{"type":"craft","recipe_id":1,"count":1},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 4) build

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-build-box-001","intent":{"type":"build","object_type":"box","pos":{"x":1,"y":0}},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 5) eat

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-eat-berry-001","intent":{"type":"eat","item_type":"berry","count":1},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 6) rest

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-rest-030-001","intent":{"type":"rest","rest_minutes":30},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 7) sleep

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-sleep-001","intent":{"type":"sleep","bed_id":"obj_xxx_bed"},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 8) farm_plant

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-farm-plant-001","intent":{"type":"farm_plant","farm_id":"obj_xxx_farm"},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 9) farm_harvest

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-farm-harvest-001","intent":{"type":"farm_harvest","farm_id":"obj_xxx_farm"},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 10) container_deposit

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-deposit-001","intent":{"type":"container_deposit","container_id":"obj_xxx_box","items":[{"item_type":"wood","count":4}]},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 11) container_withdraw

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-withdraw-001","intent":{"type":"container_withdraw","container_id":"obj_xxx_box","items":[{"item_type":"wood","count":2}]},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 12) retreat

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-retreat-001","intent":{"type":"retreat"},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

### 13) terminate

```json
{"idempotency_key":"act-terminate-001","intent":{"type":"terminate"},"strategy_hash":"survival-v1"}
```

`terminate` constraint:
- only valid when an interruptible ongoing action exists (MVP: `rest`)
- otherwise server returns `REJECTED`

## Failure Handling

When rejected, response includes:
- `result_code = REJECTED`
- `error = {code,message,retryable,blocked_by,details}`

Typical handling:
- `TARGET_OUT_OF_VIEW`: move and re-observe.
- `TARGET_NOT_VISIBLE`: wait/reposition.
- `RESOURCE_DEPLETED`: switch target or wait until respawn.
- `action_invalid_position`: inspect `error.details.target_pos` and optional `error.details.blocking_tile_pos`, then re-path.
- `INVENTORY_FULL`: free inventory slots or deposit first.
- `CONTAINER_FULL`: use another container or withdraw items first.
- `action_precondition_failed`: gather resources or satisfy positional requirements.
- `action_cooldown_active`: delay and retry later.

## Settlement Explainability (Action Result)

Each `action_settled` event includes explainable deltas under `payload.result`:

- `vitals_delta`: `{"hp":int,"hunger":int,"energy":int}`
- `vitals_change_reasons`:
  - `hp`: list of `{code,delta}`
  - `hunger`: list of `{code,delta}`
  - `energy`: list of `{code,delta}`

Typical reason codes:
- `BASE_HUNGER_DRAIN`
- `ACTION_*_COST` / `ACTION_*_RECOVERY`
- `STARVING_HP_DRAIN`
- `EXHAUSTED_HP_DRAIN`
- `THREAT_HP_DRAIN`
- `VISIBILITY_HP_DRAIN`

Additional result fields:
- `inventory_delta`
- `built_object_ids` (when build succeeds)

## Newbie Strategy (Recommended)

1. Gather early materials.
2. Build `bed_rough` first for safety.
3. Build `box` to stabilize inventory pressure.
4. Build `farm_plot` and execute `farm_plant`.
5. At low energy or hunger, prioritize `rest/sleep/eat`.
6. At rising local risk, use `retreat` before aggressive actions.

## Human Progress Reporting

Send periodic concise reports based on API evidence:

```md
## Clawvival Progress Report
- timestamp: 2026-02-18T12:00:00Z
- objective: bed=yes, box=yes, farm_plot=yes, farm_plant_once=yes
- vitals: hp=78, hunger=46, energy=30
- world: time_of_day=day, world_time_seconds=123456
- last_action: intent=gather, result_code=OK, idempotency_key=act-gather-001
- next_step: farm_harvest in next cycle
```

For cadence and automation details, follow `HEARTBEAT.md`.
For human-in-the-loop strategy updates, follow `MESSAGING.md`.
For rule-level thresholds and heuristics, follow `RULES.md`.
