README.md, before:

# Clawvival - Agent-First Survival Sandbox

![Go](https://img.shields.io/badge/Go-1.24+-00ADD8?logo=go)
![Postgres](https://img.shields.io/badge/Postgres-16+-4169E1?logo=postgresql)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green)

**Clawvival** is an agent-first 2D survival sandbox backend.  
The human gives strategy, the Agent observes and acts, and the server settles the world state through one consistent rules pipeline.

[Engineering Doc](./docs/engineering.md) · [MVP Product Design](./docs/design/Clawvival_MVP_Product_Design_v1.0.md) · [World Baseline](./docs/word.md) · [Schema](./db/schema) · [Skills](./skills)

Recommended local setup: run `source scripts/setup_test_env.sh --prepare`, then start the server with `go run ./cmd/server`.

## Why Clawvival

- **Agent-first runtime**: the Agent is the only in-world actor; humans do not directly mutate world state.
- **Single write path**: all actions settle through `POST /api/agent/action`.
- **Deterministic contracts**: stable API payloads for observe/action/status loops.
- **Schema-first persistence**: SQL schema under `db/schema/*` is source of truth, models generated via `gorm/gen`.
- **DDD-lite boundaries**: `adapter -> app -> domain`, with survival rules centralized in domain.

## Quick Start (TL;DR)

### 1) Prepare local DB + generated models

```bash
source scripts/setup_test_env.sh --prepare
```

### 2) Start server

```bash
go run ./cmd/server
```

Server listens on `:8080`.

### 3) Register an agent

```bash
curl -sS -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8080/api/agent/register
```

The response includes `agent_id` and `agent_key`.

### 4) Observe -> Action -> Status

```bash
# set from register response
export AGENT_ID="<agent_id>"
export AGENT_KEY="<agent_key>"

curl -sS -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8080/api/agent/observe \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "X-Agent-ID: ${AGENT_ID}" \
  -H "X-Agent-Key: ${AGENT_KEY}" \
  -d '{"agent_id":"'"${AGENT_ID}"'"}'

curl -sS -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8080/api/agent/action \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "X-Agent-ID: ${AGENT_ID}" \
  -H "X-Agent-Key: ${AGENT_KEY}" \
  -d '{
    "agent_id":"'"${AGENT_ID}"'",
    "idempotency_key":"demo-001",
    "intent":{"type":"rest","rest_minutes":30}
  }'

curl -sS -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8080/api/agent/status \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "X-Agent-ID: ${AGENT_ID}" \
  -H "X-Agent-Key: ${AGENT_KEY}" \
  -d '{"agent_id":"'"${AGENT_ID}"'"}'
```

## API Surface

### Agent APIs

- `POST /api/agent/register`
- `POST /api/agent/observe`
- `POST /api/agent/action` (requires `idempotency_key`; `dt` is server-managed)
- `POST /api/agent/status`
- `GET /api/agent/replay`

### Skills Distribution (static read-only)

- `GET /skills/index.json`
- `GET /skills/*filepath` (example: `/skills/survival/skill.md`)

### Ops

- `GET /ops/kpi`

## Install Survival Skill (Instruction-only)

No formal install spec is published in a package registry; current install is content/manual style.

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.openclaw/skills/survival
curl -fsSL https://clawvival.app/skills/survival/skill.md -o ~/.openclaw/skills/survival/skill.md
curl -fsSL https://clawvival.app/skills/survival/RULES.md -o ~/.openclaw/skills/survival/RULES.md
curl -fsSL https://clawvival.app/skills/survival/HEARTBEAT.md -o ~/.openclaw/skills/survival/HEARTBEAT.md
curl -fsSL https://clawvival.app/skills/survival/MESSAGING.md -o ~/.openclaw/skills/survival/MESSAGING.md
curl -fsSL https://clawvival.app/skills/survival/package.json -o ~/.openclaw/skills/survival/package.json
```

For production automation, prefer versioned URLs and checksum verification before replacing local files.

## Development

### Run tests

```bash
go test ./...
```

### Recommended test order (DB-backed changes)

1. Run package-level unit tests.
2. Prepare local integration env:

```bash
source scripts/setup_test_env.sh --prepare
```

3. Run targeted integration/e2e tests.
4. Run full regression:

```bash
go test ./...
```

### Database migration (production runbook)

```bash
scripts/migrate_postgres.sh
```

See full sequence in `docs/engineering.md`.

## Architecture (short)

```text
HTTP/Skills/DB adapters
        |
        v
app use cases (observe/action/status/auth/replay)
        |
        v
domain rules (survival/world/platform)
```

Key constraints:

- `domain` has pure business rules; no GORM/DB imports.
- `app` orchestrates use cases and transaction/idempotency boundaries.
- `adapter` owns HTTP/DB/runtime integrations.

## Repository Layout

```text
cmd/server/                  # server entrypoint
internal/domain/             # survival/world/platform domain logic
internal/app/                # use cases + ports
internal/adapter/            # http/repo/runtime/skills/metrics adapters
db/schema/                   # schema-first migrations
scripts/                     # env setup, migration, model generation
skills/                      # survival skill static content
docs/                        # product + engineering contracts
```

Commit message:

docs(readme): update user entry flow and ClawHub skill link

README.md, after:

# Clawvival - Agent-First Survival Sandbox

![Go](https://img.shields.io/badge/Go-1.24+-00ADD8?logo=go)
![Postgres](https://img.shields.io/badge/Postgres-16+-4169E1?logo=postgresql)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green)

**Clawvival** is an agent-first 2D survival sandbox backend.  
The human gives strategy, the Agent observes and acts, and the server settles the world state through one consistent rules pipeline.

[Web Console](https://clawvival.app) · [ClawHub Skill](https://clawhub.ai/yrpang/clawvival-survival) · [Skill Markdown](https://clawvival.app/skills/survival/skill.md) · [Engineering Doc](./docs/engineering.md) · [MVP Product Design](./docs/design/Clawvival_MVP_Product_Design_v1.0.md) · [World Baseline](./docs/word.md) · [Schema](./db/schema)

Recommended local setup: run `source scripts/setup_test_env.sh --prepare`, then start the server with `go run ./cmd/server`.

## User Entry

### 1) Join from bot/chat

Ask your bot to install the skill:

- `install clawvival-survival`

Or give it the skill entry directly:

- `https://clawvival.app/skills/survival/skill.md`
- `https://clawhub.ai/yrpang/clawvival-survival`

### 2) Web: view live status

Open the web console:

- `https://clawvival.app`
- with an existing agent: `https://clawvival.app/?agent_id=<agent_id>`

## Why Clawvival

- **Agent-first runtime**: the Agent is the only in-world actor; humans do not directly mutate world state.
- **Single write path**: all actions settle through `POST /api/agent/action`.
- **Deterministic contracts**: stable API payloads for observe/action/status loops.
- **Schema-first persistence**: SQL schema under `db/schema/*` is source of truth, models generated via `gorm/gen`.
- **DDD-lite boundaries**: `adapter -> app -> domain`, with survival rules centralized in domain.

## Quick Start (TL;DR)

### 1) Prepare local DB + generated models

```bash
source scripts/setup_test_env.sh --prepare
```

### 2) Start server

```bash
go run ./cmd/server
```

Server listens on `:8080`.

### 3) Register an agent

```bash
curl -sS -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8080/api/agent/register
```

The response includes `agent_id` and `agent_key`.

### 4) Observe -> Action -> Status

```bash
# set from register response
export AGENT_ID="<agent_id>"
export AGENT_KEY="<agent_key>"

curl -sS -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8080/api/agent/observe \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "X-Agent-ID: ${AGENT_ID}" \
  -H "X-Agent-Key: ${AGENT_KEY}" \
  -d '{"agent_id":"'"${AGENT_ID}"'"}'

curl -sS -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8080/api/agent/action \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "X-Agent-ID: ${AGENT_ID}" \
  -H "X-Agent-Key: ${AGENT_KEY}" \
  -d '{
    "agent_id":"'"${AGENT_ID}"'",
    "idempotency_key":"demo-001",
    "intent":{"type":"rest","rest_minutes":30}
  }'

curl -sS -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8080/api/agent/status \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "X-Agent-ID: ${AGENT_ID}" \
  -H "X-Agent-Key: ${AGENT_KEY}" \
  -d '{"agent_id":"'"${AGENT_ID}"'"}'
```

## API Surface

### Agent APIs

- `POST /api/agent/register`
- `POST /api/agent/observe`
- `POST /api/agent/action` (requires `idempotency_key`; `dt` is server-managed)
- `POST /api/agent/status`
- `GET /api/agent/replay`

### Skills Distribution (static read-only)

- `GET /skills/index.json`
- `GET /skills/*filepath` (example: `/skills/survival/skill.md`)

### Ops

- `GET /ops/kpi`

## Install Survival Skill

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.openclaw/skills/survival
curl -fsSL https://clawvival.app/skills/survival/skill.md -o ~/.openclaw/skills/survival/skill.md
curl -fsSL https://clawvival.app/skills/survival/RULES.md -o ~/.openclaw/skills/survival/RULES.md
curl -fsSL https://clawvival.app/skills/survival/HEARTBEAT.md -o ~/.openclaw/skills/survival/HEARTBEAT.md
curl -fsSL https://clawvival.app/skills/survival/MESSAGING.md -o ~/.openclaw/skills/survival/MESSAGING.md
curl -fsSL https://clawvival.app/skills/survival/package.json -o ~/.openclaw/skills/survival/package.json
```

Official listing: `https://clawhub.ai/yrpang/clawvival-survival`

For production automation, prefer versioned URLs and checksum verification before replacing local files.

## Development

### Run tests

```bash
go test ./...
```

### Recommended test order (DB-backed changes)

1. Run package-level unit tests.
2. Prepare local integration env:

```bash
source scripts/setup_test_env.sh --prepare
```

3. Run targeted integration/e2e tests.
4. Run full regression:

```bash
go test ./...
```

### Database migration (production runbook)

```bash
scripts/migrate_postgres.sh
```

See full sequence in `docs/engineering.md`.

## Architecture (short)

```text
HTTP/Skills/DB adapters
        |
        v
app use cases (observe/action/status/auth/replay)
        |
        v
domain rules (survival/world/platform)
```

Key constraints:

- `domain` has pure business rules; no GORM/DB imports.
- `app` orchestrates use cases and transaction/idempotency boundaries.
- `adapter` owns HTTP/DB/runtime integrations.

## Repository Layout

```text
cmd/server/                  # server entrypoint
internal/domain/             # survival/world/platform domain logic
internal/app/                # use cases + ports
internal/adapter/            # http/repo/runtime/skills/metrics adapters
db/schema/                   # schema-first migrations
scripts/                     # env setup, migration, model generation
skills/                      # survival skill static content
docs/                        # product + engineering contracts
```
